
Last bullet - meeting the 6 criteria - Evan

It is important to be able to evaluate the effectiveness of a solution after it has been developed.  Since the design cycle for any type of project is iterative, it is critical that a criteria for success be established so that engineers know what they did well and what needs to be improved in the next design iteration.  NanoHub has provided our team with these six criteria that must be met before we can deliver our product: [ bulleted list of criteria ]
We seek to fulfill the first criteria with our 'NanoSize' simulation.  This simulation involves assembling aircraft parts virtually on the screen by clicking and dragging. It will calculate and display any user error incurred in nanometers so that the user may get an understanding of the scale of these microscopic tolerances in the aerospace industry.
The second criteria, linking size and scale to another nanoscience field, is achieved with our NanoEnergy and NanoMelt simulations.  Both of these allow the user to control the size of the repeating geometry within nanostructures, linking them to cohesive strength (aka lattice energy) and melting point properties (phase change energy).
The third criteria is possibly the most important of all six, since we wanted to leave the user with a knowledge of the scope of nanotechnology across all disciplines.  To achieve this, each of the GUI's provides some background information on the relevant engineering discipline, and then presents the user with a hypothetical situation in which they must assemble or design an aircraft part.  For example, in 'NanoPlane', the user is tasked with the responsibility of a materials engineer icreating an airplane wing.  The user must select the optimal density of the repeating nanoscale units while taking into consideration factors like overall weight and wing strength.  We expect the model of a hypothetical situation to serve towards criteria 5 (interest and interactivity), as many of the target users will want to know more about relevant future careers.
Each of the team members GUI's used in the deliverable provides a simulation and allows the end user to explore various mathematical models.  The interactive nature of these simulations also makes the overall GUI more engaging.  Each simulation is accompanied by a page dedicated  to providing instructions to the user.  Additionally, the team observed some basic conventions to ensure the best user experience.  For example, all navigation buttons are located in the same general area.
